---
layout: post
title:  "Next steps on The List"
date:   2015-03-16 22:02:06
categories: android
---

**by Ryan Merkley, CEO, Creative Commons**

Today we're pushing the latest beta release of our mobile app, The
List powered by Creative Commons. It's a mobile photography app that
invites users to create a list of images they want, or submit photos
to help a person or group who created a list. Every image is uploaded
to the archive with a
[Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0)
licence, allowing anyone to use the images so long as they give proper
credit to the author.

Our initial build was supported with a prototype grant from the Knight
Foundation, which gave us the resources we needed to build a proof of
concept. We built a team -- from Creative Commons, our technical lead
Matt Lee and senior counsel, Sarah Pearson -- and Alexandra Bain and
the team at Toronto agency Playground. We learned a lot in that
process, and have shipped regular releases since then. It's really
starting to look great. We are now working to scope a consumer MVP
(minimum viable product - the simplest version of the app that still
meets all the core user needs) and to raise funds to bring the app to
everyday users as well.

As Clive Thompson wrote in Wired,
"[only you can overthrow the tyranny of stock photos](http://www.wired.com/2014/05/stock-photos/)". The
commons is a collective creation, and we see the opportunity to create
a dynamic and vibrant pool of available images from people who want to
share -- and to directly connect photographers and those who want
images they can build upon. In the article, Thompson encouraged us to
share our images with CC licenses. That will get us part of the way --
but we need to be able to ask for what we want, and help users submit
what's needed. And the process needs to be engaging, fun, and
rewarding.

When I read Thompson's article, I was inspired to create The List. We
see opportunities to use The List to enhance the content on platforms
like Wikipedia, to share images for open journalism, to collaborate to
build open textbooks, or to document observations in citizen
science. And we know that users will come up with many more ideas of
their own.

Why should CC build a mobile app? There are a few answers to that question:

1. Most importantly, we believe there's a need for the app, and that it will give value to those who use it, and those who use the images.

2. Making it easier to contribute to the commons is one of our strategic goals, not only because it creates a better archive of resources to use and re-use, but also because each contribution deepens the investment and value of the commons. It grows the movement.

3. We see an opportunity to pilot new approaches to CC, including one-click attribution, embedded licensing, content analytics, and more.

4. The web is going mobile, and CC has to understand how that will impact what we do. Building on the platform is one great way to work through the issues and challenges, while supporting our partner platforms who are asking us for advice on issues they're facing, like attribution on mobile.

We're very grateful for the early support we received from Knight, and
we're optimistic that we can raise the funds necessary to develop the
app and bring it to a mainstream audience. For now, I encourage you to
[try the latest build](https://thelist.creativecommons.org/downloads/),
give us
[your feedback ideas and suggestions](//github.com/creativecommons/list/issues),
or even
[contribute some code](https://github.com/creativecommons/list/blob/master/docs/contributing.md).
